Now when loading stocks, I will of course trigger it here in the header but I don't want to execute all
the logic here because when loading stocks, we actually do change our state because we basically set
our old state to the new state we just fetched from the database.
So first of all, I'll add a click listener here to load data and I'll name it load data,
of course I also need to have a method here, load data maybe and in load data,
I now want to execute a load data action in my store.
Now that action doesn't exist yet,
neither in stocks here nor in portfolio,
so let's add one. The thing why it doesn't exist yet is or the reason is that this really influences
both, portfolio and stocks,
we changed the state in both pieces.
Therefore I will create a new file in the store itself, actions.js
here where I want to trigger the respective commits I need,
I need an action because it will run asynchronously.
So in here, I will export a constant and name it load data
for example, this will be the name of the action and this shall be a function where of course I do get
my commit function,
I'm not getting any payload because I'm not passing one, instead here I want to reach out to the server
so I will use vue. Now to be able to use vue, I of course
also need to import it
otherwise we don't have access to it in this file,
vue http,
now without a dollar sign
because we're accessing it directly on the vue object itself
get and of course we also need to reach out to data.json.
Now once we get it, I want to execute
then because we do have a promise here,
keep this in mind and there, I simply want to extract the data and transform it into a javascript object
which also gives us back a promise, so we need to call
then again, this is what we learned in the vue resource module in this course.
And then I got my extracted data here
or let's just name it data, that short I guess.
And with that data, I first want to check if we actually do have any data, so if data
otherwise there's nothing we can do with it because if we click load and there is no data on the server,
well then I don't want to try to set my state to it.
So in this case, I will get my stocks from data and then the stocks field because this, if you have a
look at it, is how it's set up in data,
we get these stocks
node, we also got stock portfolio and funds so that will be what I also extract, funds from data.funds
and also my stock portfolio from data stock portfolio, like this. With that I extracted all the data from
the body I got back with the request or with the response,
I will create a new portfolio with this, a new object where I simply store stock portfolio and funds
and this of course is the state I set up in the portfolio.js file with funds and my stocks. So the
last step and then is to commit to mutations, the first mutation is set stocks, I do have that here
where I simply well, exchange my stocks and I will need the same for portfolio, so here
I also want to add set portfolio to be able to override that
whenever we do actually hit that load button.
So set portfolio also takes the state and this new portfolio I'll pass with the commit function and
then I want to set state funds equal to portfolio funds and
I want to set state stocks, this array of stocks in my portfolio to portfolio, stock portfolio or for
us to want to check if that exists,
if this is empty in this case, I want to set it to an empty array, otherwise I'm checking if it exists,
if yes, I will set it to it
otherwise to an empty array,
that is how I should say it.
So I get set portfolio now too,
with that I can not only commit set stocks and pass along my stocks
but I can also execute set or commit set portfolio and pass along my portfolio, like this.
So this is my load data action,
now of course in the header, we're not using that
so let's wire this all up and test it in the next video.